# Quantum Communications and Cryptography Literature Review

### Abstract format - remove me before submission!
1. Problem Statement: What is the primary problem that the study investigated? Why is this an urgent and/or severe problem?
2. Research question(s): What questions related to the problem have not been answered by prior research? Why are practitioners or prior research lacking an understanding of the phenomenon being studied?
3. Contribution: What is the contribution made by this manuscript to a current conversation in the literature? Why are the concept relationships, method, findings, or conclusions surprising or contributing new and important insights?
4. Rationale: How is the paper’s argument addressing the research questions? Why are the claims and propositions warranted?
5. Investigative Approach: What is the approach followed (e.g. field study, experience with a new or existing method, review, empirical, etc.) or what is the paper’s empirical rationale? Why is the method appropriate to develop or test the theoretical claims and propositions?
6. Lessons Learned: What are the primary findings from the study? Why might we expect a substantive impact on practice from the factors analyzed in this study?
7. Implications for practice: What advances in cybersecurity workforce capabilities are implied? Why is the study advancing cybersecurity workforce capabilities?
8. Implications for research: What advances in research are implied or new questions have been raised which future research should investigate? What new investigations are suggested by the findings?

Template:
1. **Citation:** \
**Problem Statement:** \
**Research Question(s):** \
**Contribution:** \
**Rationale:** \
**Investigative Approach:** \
**Lessons Learned:** \
**Implications for Practice:** \
**Implications for Research:**

## Quantum Key Distribution
1. **Abstract:** This is a paper published at 2018 that mainly describes the several QKD protocols structure like BB84, B92, and BBM92 and its usages. At the beginning, this article defines background of each protocol along with visual elaboration. Then, they have done a simulation to examine which protocol above has the most reliable photon exchanging rate. In their simulation, they have compared three results while these three QKD protocols have been eavesdropped by a third party to check how many keys can be received and how many errors can occur during the transmission. \
**Citation:** A. I. Nurhadi and N. R. Syambas, "Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) Protocols: A Survey," 2018 4th International Conference on Wireless and Telematics (ICWT), Nusa Dua, 2018, pp. 1-5, doi: 10.1109/ICWT.2018.8527822.

2. **Abstract:** As we all know, One-Time-Pad is the most secure way to build communication between two network nodes, so the Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) is taking advantage from it to build a much safer network environment called QKDN. However, the key generating rate of current QKDN is in a low speed. As a result, some other studies have explored other conception, which is called Quantum Key Pool (QKP), to mitigate the inefficiency of key production by storing generated keys. To be honest, traditional QKP brings other problems to the QKDN. Likely, the security of QKD will decrease because of the QKP needs to store keys for a while, and the basic performance of QKDN will be harmed. In this case, the author has denoted a conception “Multi-Path Based Quasi-Real-Time QKD” to enhance the security of QKD along with great dynamic response services in QKDN. More specially, the Quasi-real-time QKD could keep the absolutely secure of the quantum key after it has been generated in a dedicated time period, so they proposed the Virtual QKP to store quantum keys in different virtual space which is corresponding to separate secret key path. \
**Citation:** X. Liu et al., "Multi-path based Quasi-real-time Quantum Key Distribution in Software Defined Quantum Key Distribution Networks (SD-QKDN)," 2019 18th International Conference on Optical Communications and Networks (ICOCN), Huangshan, China, 2019, pp. 1-3, doi: 10.1109/ICOCN.2019.8934684.

3.  **Abstract:** This paper has been published on 2020 IEEE ITNEC conference, and it discusses the 4 different statistical methods that can measure the performance of the decoy QKD scheme under finite-length data. What is a decoy QKD scheme? Since there still exists a gap between the current QKD system and ideal one, some scientists have conquered this problem by using decoy scheme to improve the security and performance of QKD transmission. However, in the decoy scheme, the pre-request is the data exchanges between two nodes are infinite. Hence, with the limited data exchanges rate of the real world QKD system, this scheme will lead to the statistical fluctuation, which could reduce the security of quantum key generation and transmission. Therefore, the article analyzes the security limit of decoy scheme under finite-length data by utilizing 4 statistical analysis methods. After experiment and comparison finished, they have concluded Chernoff boundary is the best choice which can meet the practical QKD system to provide the best security under finite-length data. \
**Citation:** W. Yu, Y. Zhou, X. Zhou, L. Wang and S. Chen, "Study on Statistical Analysis Method of Decoy-state Quantum Key Distribution with Finite-length Data," 2020 IEEE 4th Information Technology, Networking, Electronic and Automation Control Conference (ITNEC), Chongqing, China, 2020, pp. 2435-2440, doi: 10.1109/ITNEC48623.2020.9084715.

4. **Abstract:** A brand new QKD method has been mentioned in this paper, and people call it as plug-and-play twin-field quantum key distribution scheme. Original, the QKD transmission rate is limited by optical channel losses and long-distance communication. But after M. Lucamarini has proposed the Twin-field QKD (TF-QKD) protocol, the distance limitation and transmission loss can be resolved. In ideal TF-QKD, the secure key rate scale can be enlarged to almost twice, so it can be used for a long-distance transmission which is much longer than the traditional QKD. In this case, TF-QKD not only maintains the confidentiality of data, but also can be used on a relevantly longer distance communication. Nevertheless, constructing the mode matching systems to finish the first interference of two types of lasers is very difficult. As a result, the author’s group has come up with a plug-and-play TF-QKD scheme, which can make TF-QKD system achievable, to implement long distance quantum key in a high visibility. In their experiment, they have observed the higher visibility (%98.8 and %97.8) of the interference between two nodes, which means the secure key rate scale can be improved about to the square root of the single repeater QKD. Therefore, it is a reasonable framework to make TF-QKD practical. \
**Citation:** C. H. Park, M. Ki Woo, B. K. Park, Y. -S. Kim, S. Kim and S. -W. Han, "Research on Plug-and-Play Twin-Field Quantum Key Distribution," 2020 International Conference on Information and Communication Technology Convergence (ICTC), Jeju Island, Korea (South), 2020, pp. 890-893, doi: 10.1109/ICTC49870.2020.9289265.  


## Quantum Non-Repudiation
1. **Citation:** N. Hematpour, S. Ahadpour, and S. Behnia, “Presence of dynamics of quantum dots in the digital signature using DNA alphabet and chaotic S-box,” Multimed Tools Appl, Nov. 2020, doi: 10.1007/s11042-020-10059-5. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1007/s11042-020-10059-5. [Accessed: 07-Feb-2021]
\
**Problem Statement:** Digital signatures are an important aspect for verifying the integrity and authenticity of a message, and this study investigates the usage of quantum dots to provide digital signatures.
\
**Research Question(s):** Not explicitly stated, but the authors are attempting to provide an improved way of implementing digital signatures with security against repudiation and forgery, and with a high degree of entropy. This method provides a longer signature with fewer steps and more security than previous implementations.
\
**Contribution:** The authors develop a scheme which uses a dynamic map based on quantum dots, a permutation and substitution scheme similar to AES, and DNA coding to create a quantum digital signature with a high degree of security as long as the signature is of sufficient length. By sending a dynamic quantum system's control parameter and critical points as well as some initial point in phase space, two parties could implement these digital signatures using a quantum computer, but without requiring a quantum channel for transmission.
\
**Rationale:** The authors argue for the security of their system by analyzing the statistical likelihood of an attacker being able to forge the signature or repudiate a message and establish that it decreases exponentially as a function of message length, as well as conducting numerical analysis on their proposed S-box. The security of their dynamic system is based on Lyapunov exponents, which have been discussed in other reviewed works as well.
\
**Investigative Approach:** The authors provide a theoretical implementation of two different versions of this protocol with examples encoding a simple phrase, and compare their security.
\
**Lessons Learned:** The protocol was successfully modeled and analyzed, and found to have a high degree of security based on the mathematical operations used.
\
**Implications for Practice:** This system could be a viable candidate for implementation on a quantum computer on which operators are able to set control parameters and critical points, though might not be suitable for an implementation on a quantum simulator or cloud based quantum computer.
\
**Implications for Research:** It would be worth investigating if there are other encryption systems that can transmit classical values using a non-quantum channel but still obtain the same high level of security given by a quantum system.

2. **Citation:** M.-S. Kang, C.-H. Hong, J. Heo, J.-I. Lim, and H.-J. Yang, “Quantum Signature Scheme Using a Single Qubit Rotation Operator,” Int J Theor Phys, vol. 54, no. 2, pp. 614–629, Feb. 2015, doi: 10.1007/s10773-014-2254-y.
\
**Problem Statement:** Digital signatures are an important aspect for verifying the integrity and authenticity of a message, and this study investigates the signing of quantum messages using a single qubit and rotation operators.
\
**Research Question(s):** This paper investigates the usage of arbitrated quantum signatures (AQS) and attempts to improve on the security of previously used methods by introducing decoy photons to secure the communications channel.
\
**Contribution:** This source was surprising in that it showed that quantum signatures can be used for both classical and quantum messages. The ability to sign a message using only a single qubit and a trusted third party is valuable. They show that forgery is impossible with this technique, but perfect non-repudiation is not. However, they rebut several possible cases in which the signature could be repudiated.
\
**Rationale:** The paper uses extensive calculations to demonstrate the security of their method and also provide a comparison to a quantum public key technique.
\
**Investigative Approach:** This paper presents a theoretical implementation of a new AQS method as well as rigorous mathematical defense of its validity and security, which is appropriate in this case.
\
**Lessons Learned:** The signature scheme proposed by the authors works with only a single qubit and does not require the sharing of an entangled Bell state between two parties. They also show that the trusted third party in the signature scheme provides superior security to other similar schemes as it provides real time non-repudiation.
\
**Implications for Practice:** This signature scheme could be used for signing quantum messages, but it is not useful for signing classical messages. One interesting circuit introduced (to me at least) in this paper was the quantum swap test, which checks the equality of two qubits without measuring either of them.
\
**Implications for Research:** A major takeaway is that unconditionally secure quantum signatures for quantum messages are impossible. Another is that quantum one-way functions like those used in RSA are difficult to establish, though rotation operators are promising candidates and function in this manner under certain constraints.


## Quantum Intro
1. **Abstract:** This paper explains how Quantum mechanics was adapted to be used in Quantum Computing by Peter Shor in 1994. Shor’s Quantum algorithm is a polynomial time algorithm, used in factoring integers. After Shor’s Algorithm showed that Quantum algorithms derived from Quantum mechanics could be used in Quantum Computers. A race to see if more Quantum mechanics could be used to create an algorithm for Quantum Computer.Quantum Computing potential to far exceed current computational powers by Quantum parallelism. This paper shows the increase of space is needed to increase computational power, with Quantum Computing the increase of space is exponential increased because of parallelism. Quantum Mechanics such as photon Polarization, Bra/Ket Notation and State Spaces are discussed in this paper. The most common Quantum Algorithms and Quantum environments are discussed in this paper. If you need a Quantum Computing term or algorithm explained in a way that makes sense for Non-Physicists this is a good reference paper. \
**Citation:** Rieffel, E., & Polak, W. (2000). An introduction to quantum computing for non-physicists. ACMComputing Surveys (CSUR), 32(3), 300-335.In this Introductory and Survey paper Rieffel and Polak attempt to explain quantum computing for in terms that a Non-Physicists can understand.

2. **Abstract:** In Humble’s Consumer Application of Quantum Computing the demands of commerce for Quantum Computing are discussed. Quantum Computing can change the way the world does finance security and commerce. When Quantum Computing registers a value the superposition and entanglement principles create a conceptual difference in interpreting the value. This is principle is important in the probabilistic of quantum whichcreate certifiable randomness. Randomness in current computing looks random but is generate from a non-random source, in Quantum Computing it would be a true random source and the outcome would be true random. Random plays big role in gambling and key generation cybersecurity and true random could create a stronger security for gambling and cybersecurity by making it almost imposable to guess the answer.
Consumer Application of Quantum Computing is a good source for see where Quantum Computing can fit into the commercial world and help predict uses. Quantum computing is not a fast growing industry even though there is a lot of money in the research right now. This article show how important Quantum Computing can be to the commerce and what quality Quantum Computing has that current computing can not replicate. \
**Citation:** Humble, T. (2018). Consumer applications of quantum computing: A promising approach for secure computation, trusted data storage, and efficient applications. IEEE Consumer Electronics Magazine, 7(6), 8-14.

3. **Abstract:** In this paper by Albash and Lidar they talk about Adiabatic Quantum Algorithms which is an alternative to the Quantum Computing Circuit model. Quantum Computing uses the Hamiltonians model and the Adiabatic Quantum algorithms optimize the Hamiltonians. In the Hamiltonian of an operator is used to correspond to the full energy of a system.Quantum Adibatic Algorithm in a dedicated device will optimize the combinatorial optimization problem, this means the best solution is easier to calculate. The combinatorial optimization problem is solved by evolving adiabatically when in the ground state. Adiabatic Quantum Computing (AQC) can be as powerful as a non-stoquastic Hamiltonians in the circuit model, “non-stoquastic AQC and all other models for universal quantum computation can simulate one another with at most polynomial resource overhead”(Albash, Lidar).The performance of Quantum Adiabatic Algorithms is influenced from the quantum phase transition of the system thermodynamic limit. This means that unlike Circuit Quantum Computer where the limit is how many gates it has the limit of AQC is the thermodynamic limit. \
**Citation:** Albash, T., & Lidar, D. A. (2018). Adiabatic quantum computation. Reviews of Modern Physics, 90(1), 015002.

4. **Abstract:** In this paper by Bauckhage et al, Adiabatic Quantum Computers are using in binary optimization problems. In this paper they use Lloyd’s procedure to create k-means clustering and using Adiabatic Quantum Computer using Ising model to solve the same clustering problem, Lloyd’s procedure is the most commonly used to solve clustering. In this paper Adiabatic Quantum Computing is shown to be a better at solving the binary clustering using the Ising model.  “At the end of the process, two basis states have noticeably higher amplitudes |ai | 2 than the others and are therefore more likely to be measured; these are  00111111 and  11000000 and they both induce the clustering shown in”(Bauckhage et al). This shows that the Didactic example of clustering using the Ising model is solved better with the Adiabatic Quantum binary clustering. \
**Citation:** Bauckhage, C., Brito, E., Cvejoski, K., Ojeda, C., Sifa, R., & Wrobel, S. (2017). Adiabatic Quantum Computing for Binary Clustering. arXiv preprint arXiv:1706.05528.

5. **Abstract:** In Ying’s paper it talks about what Quantum Computing can do compared to standard Computing. A Quantum Algorithm was found that could find a single search query in a unsorted database in square root time of common computers. This Quantum algorithm could also do prime factorization. Querying a database and prime factorization is very lucrative to company’s and this generated an interest in Quantum Computing. As interest grew for Quantum computing so did interest grow for a Quantum Turing Machine, the first viable options was created by Deutsch in 1985. To make a A.I. Quantum Computer Quantum algorithms need to be written and Quantum Computer Architecture has to be created. Quantum programming to make changes and interact with the machine. All this infrastructure has to be created and most of it has. The issues is that Quantum Computingprocessing power is not capable yet to run these program to thoroughly test them. This paper expands on the potential applications of Quantum in AI \
**Citation:** Ying, M. (2010). Quantum computation, quantum theory and AI. Artificial Intelligence, 174(2), 162-176.

## Another Topic
