# Initial Technical Plan
The field of quantum cryptography is very broad, with numerous theoretical and practical concerns that will influence the nature and scope of our work on this project. As alluded to by our project goals, we have set out to answer the following research questions:
* **RQ1:** What are the impacts of quantum computing on today's commonly used cryptographic protocols for hashing, symmetric, and asymmetric encryption? Which of these protocols or classes of protocols need to be replaced by quantum or post-quantum solutions?
* **RQ2:** What are the most promising techniques, either quantum or a hybrid of classical and quantum techniques, for maintaining the confidentiality of data at rest and in motion?
* **RQ3:** What are ..., for verifying the integrity of data received?
* **RQ4:** What are ..., for ensuring the authenticity and non-repudiation of messages?
The focus of our research will be primarily on quantum cryptography, but we would also be amiss in our duty as researchers if we did not acknowledge that some purely classical algorithms may emerge as the best candidates for use in these areas. To serve as a representative sample of classical post-quantum algorithms, i.e. those which are resistant to all known attacks by quantum computers, we intend to consider different types from the current round of [NIST's post-quantum cryptography initiative](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/post-quantum-cryptography).

The first steps in answering **RQ1** have largely been completed through the course of our initial literature review. It is well understood that Shor's Algorithm provides a polynomial-time solution to the factorization problem, and can be extended to other problems in the BQP complexity class[1](...). This algorithm is "able to break many of the public-key cryptosystems currently in use"[2](...), breaking RSA, Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman, and other protocols in this algorithmic complexity class. This tells us that the currently used asymmetric encryption and digital signatures that underpin internet communications will need to be replaced with new quantum-resistant protocols in order to preserve confidentiality and authenticity of messages. Symmetric algorithms such as AES are weakened by Grover's algorithm, but are not broken by any known quantum algorithms. Work has been done to assess the security of AES against quantum attacks[3](...), but it appears to be quantum-resistant and is likely to provide security for many years to come when a 256-bit key is used. If additional security were needed beyond even that level, an encrypt-decrypt-encrypt style operation similar to 3DES could be used to extend its lifetime to the point that the entire energy content of the universe would need to be expended to brute force even a single key. The security of hashing algorithms, used to provide integrity and authenticity, is currently more threatened by the classical [van Oorschot-Weiner algorithm](http://people.scs.carleton.ca/~paulv/papers/JoC97.pdf) than by known quantum algorithms, though this topic still requires additional research.

To answer **RQ2-4** we intend to take a multi-step approach consisting of identification, classification, and evaluation of protocols identified through our initial literature review. In greater detail, we envision these steps as follows:
1. **Identification:** Continue to review literature pertaining to proposed schemes for encryption, key distribution, integrity, and non-repudiation and compile a list of proposed protocols in these areas.
2. **Classification:** For each of the schemes identified in step 1, classify it according to its intended function, capabilities, and other known (as opposed to evaluated) properties, with the goal of verifying that we have a representative sample of the state of the art in each of the three areas we are studying and can easily explore other candidates if initial evaluations do not pan out in a given area. While the exact classification criteria have yet to be determined, they may include such items as relationship between signature length and message length, usage of entanglement, reusability of signatures, verification type (blind, arbitrated, etc.), and number of interactions between parties.
3. **Evaluation:** Using the work produced in step 2, conduct an evaluation a subset of protocols on a number of criteria to determine their suitability in real world applications. This step will include proof of concept implementation and testing of representative protocols where possible, assessment against common attacks, and other criteria to be determined as our research continues. In the testing of protocol implementations, we intend to examine such characteristics as performance, ease of eavesdropper detection, size of messages to which the protocol can be applied based on current hardware, and more.

Once the classification and evaluation of various protocols has been completed, we anticipate that we will be able to make a set of recommendations toward confidentiality, integrity, and non-repudiation based on the state of the art in quantum cryptography, as well as demonstrating their usability where implementations are feasible.

## Implementation Challenges
As implementation of quantum cryptography protocols is a major goal of our project, we also need to consider which quantum programming languages or frameworks should be used. To a large extent this selection may be guided by the protocols themselves, as the different languages we have examined are suited for some uses over others. D-Wave provides annealing quantum computers, while IBM provides gate-based quantum computers, and Xanadu provides photonic quantum computers. Each of these has its own strengths and weaknesses, and requires a different programming language to operate. As we consider the implementation of protocols further, we are likely to discover that some are simply not possible for us to implement currently, and others require implementation on a specific type of quantum hardware.

In choosing our tools, there is also a subtle but important distinction to be drawn between a quantum programming language, such as Q# or Silq, and a quantum framework for a classical language, such as Qiskit or Cirq, both of which are Python libraries. In the case of Q# or Silq, the flow of the program can be influenced by values known at compile time or by measuremets taken while the program is running. In a Python framework, it's more of a metaprogramming approach where a classical `if` statement may generate a circuit differently but the simulated quantum circuit isn't changed while it's running (thanks to Chris Granade, a quantum researcher at Microsoft, for providing enlightenment on this distinction). This distinction may not directly impact us, but as an example, some algorithms may be dramatically simpler to implement in Q# vs. Qiskit, or vice versa.

At the present time, it is anticipated that the majority of our implementation work will be conducted using IBM's Qiskit library. This decision is based on [coursework one of our team members completed over the summer](...). The primary motivations for this selection are the ease of integration with IBM's quantum experience, availability of real quantum hardware for running tests, excellent documentation of the Qiskit library, and the overall accessibility of Python as a programming language.

### TODO:
Add mention of adiabatic quantum computing in challenges
